---
layout: bio
note: formal
feature: yes
---
Dr. Sarah Brown is a University of California, Berkeley Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, a member of the Statistical Artificial Intelligence Lab led by Professor Mike Jordan, and a member of the Algorithmic Fairness and Opacity Group based in the Ischool. Dr. Brown received her BS in Electrical Engineering with a minor in Biomedical Engineering in May 2011, MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering in January 2014, and PhD in Electrical Engineering in December 2016, all from Northeastern University. Her graduate studies were supported by a Draper Laboratory Fellowship and a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship. In her dissertation, Dr. Brown developed generative machine learning models for neuroimaging studies with pyschological-theoretical assumptions that created a model mismatch to standard neuroimaging techniques.  Her current work explores strategies for mitigating model mismatches of similar mathematical structure in other domains.  

She volunteers as an instructor for The Carpentries, teaching introductory programming and data analysis skills in python to researchers.  Currently she serves as treasurer for Women In Machine Learning.  In 2017 she served as co-chair of the Broadening Participation in Datamining Program. As a student, Sarah served in a various roles in the National Society of Black Engineers at both the local and national levels.
